in southern Gaza the Israeli Army issued
evacuation orders for tens of thousands
of Palestinians in eastern Rafa 1.5
million people who fled the attacks
elsewhere in the strip have been seeking
refuge in the city many of them in tents
and makeshift shelters the United
Nations says around 150,000 Palestinians
have already left Rafa as Israel steps
up its ground attacks the EU is calling
Israel's evacuation orders
unacceptable my children and I ran under
Fire and people died in front of us the
shrapnel hit our faces the houses were
hit by strikes while we were running our
situation is so bad while we were
running my children and I hurt our legs
I found a shoe on the road and I wore it
to be able to run better we're running
we have no money our situation is very
hard and I came here but there's no
place to
stay we left but do we know where went
heading no we don't imagine the stress
anxiety lack of comfort I Can't Describe
for you even if my eyes don't tear my
heart is crying we are sad and depressed
our children are very tired we don't
have water we hardly get food and we
struggle with
everything the United Nations is warning
that food supplies in southern Gaza are
going to run out within hours Israel's
blocked Aid deliveries in the past week
but humanitarian agencies are calling
for the immediate entry of supplies
including
fuel the closure especially Rafa
Crossing um and K abalum has severed
access for us to fuel to supplies and
the movement of humanitarian staff it's
also affected the movement of any
civilians that could go out to medical
evacuation world food program in Ura
will run out of food for distribution uh
in the South uh by tomorrow that means
people will be left only with what has
already been distributed uh in their in
their shelters and their homes and on
site as of today um we have 12 bakeries
supported by humanitarian Partners here
in South Gaza eight have ceased to
operate due to lack of fuel in stock and
four that are still operating have
reduced capacities we'll be out of that
stock by
Monday a lack of fuel supplies has left
many hospitals in the area close to
collapse Julie dger has this report let
me warn you some of you might find the
images in a report
disturbing 7 months of
displacement and forced to flee yet
again
the Israeli military is ordering further
evacuations in eastern Rafa but as
Palestinians try to
leave bombs are raining down leaving
people scrambling to find safety in Gaza
where every corner is a Target and no
life is
spared we are leaving because of our
fear and due to coercion we are leaving
for the unknown and there are no safe
areas at all all the areas left are
insafe the United Nations says about
150,000 Palestinians have left Eastern
Rafa Israel is forcing them towards what
it claims is a humanitarian Zone in al-
maasi Aid groups have described
conditions there as horrific but options
for desperate Palestinians are rapidly
diminishing what should we do here do we
wait until we all die on top of each
other so we decided to leave it's better
as the Israeli military presses ahead
with its PL to launch a full scale
offensive in Rafa air strikes have been
unrelenting
elsewhere bodies are piling up in darl
Bala in central Gaza another area where
many Palestinians have fled but found no
safety here they are in pieces here is
my sister-in-law without a head my aunt
also without a head what is this
Injustice until when will this be going
on we're exhausted just
the injured here have nowhere else to go
Aid is critically low with Israeli
forces still blocking the entry of
trucks into the strip as Palestinians
trapped inside remain in a cycle trying
to evade death Julie dger Al
jazer Muhammad Al m is joining us now
he's a political analyst he's also
professor of media studies at the Doha
Institute for Graduate Studies good to
have you back on Al jazer I want to talk
to you about the words that are being
used in uh this now we're used to to
kind of judging the semantics and the
phrasing that's used when it comes to
ceasefires when we're talking about Rafa
they're also important aren't they
because from the start the Israeli
government the Netanyahu Coalition had
said they were going out for an allout
assault in Rafa the Biden Administration
in the US said nope major assault is not
what we're going to accept we seem to I
seem to get a feeling that there is a
dialing back of the of the words that
are being used what's your assessment
of what is being said to describe what's
happening in Rafa now and how that might
play out might dictate what Israel does
on the ground right I think it's really
interesting um I've actually been
following that discourse on Rafa for for
many weeks now and uh what I noted is
that uh the US was more or less saying
that they were opposed to an operation
in Rafa that it would be a disaster uh
we heard Kamala Harris come out two
months ago and say Israel is the one who
told those people to go to Rafa so the
the US was making it clear that they
didn't want any kind of an operation in
Rafa and then uh suddenly they sort of
switched up and said they oppose they
oppose a major operation in Raa and what
I read into that is that it's actually
Israel that's exerting a lot of
political control over the United States
not the other way around it's not the US
exerting control over Israel but it's
actually Israel exerting control in
other words what's happening on the
ground is that Israel makes it clear
that it's not going to take the US's
quote unquote advice and that it's going
to do what it wants to do and so the US
is sort of forced to shift its rhetoric
uh and make it appear as though it's
more or less uh uh you know that Israel
is more or less in line with what the US
uh with with what the US wants um and I
think that's what's been happening for
the better part of 7 months it's been
the it's been Israel not willing to take
the US's advice uh and doing whatever it
wants on the ground and it's been
hurting U the US Administration you gave
us an example uh briefly just when we
were talking about an hour ago where you
said that spilled over into the way that
the US was interpreting um the
negotiations over the ceasefire as well
in terms of what they demanding from
Hamas yeah so what was happening for
many weeks the US was saying in these
press brief briefings and statements
that they were putting out is that Hamas
uh hamas's refusal to accept a ceasefire
was the only thing standing in the way
of Peace in in Gaza and then last week
Hamas came out and sort of called the
US's Bluff and said okay we accept we
accept the ceasefire um and then the the
Israelis came out and rejected that
ceasefire much to the shock and I think
embarrassment of the United States they
had Bill Burns uh in the region
negotiating the terms and I think he was
quite pleased that Hamas agreed to it so
Israel then rejects it so then the US
shifted its rhetoric they could no
longer say that the the only thing
standing in the way of Peace was hamas's
refusal to accept a ceasefire so they
switched up and now they're saying for
the last few days if you watch the Press
briefings they're saying the only thing
standing in the way of peace is hamas's
refusal to put down its weapons and
surrender so that's a subtle shift but I
think an important shift um in terms of
the Dynamics between the Netanyahu
Coalition and the and the Biden
Administration in the US um for those of
us watching around the world it seems as
though politically it's the Biden
Administration who's losing out on all
of this rather than the Netanyahu
Coalition as we're getting closer of
course to the US elections in November
this is going to be a significant factor
do you think that we're going to see a
change in the rhetoric from the Biden
Administration as we heard head towards
those elections well we have a lot of
data now and the more we get of data the
worse it looks for Biden in November
there was a really interesting poll done
by uh Newsweek just last week uh and
they found that 39% of American college
students are now identifying as Pro
Palestinian compared with only 11% ident
identifying as Pro Israel this is very
significant um there's also a lot of
opinion polling data that you look at
the the swing States for instance 538 is
noting that Biden Trails Trump in all
seven of those uh essential uh swing
States these are states that Biden
absolutely has to have in order to win
the election so things look really bad
so you're right I think that there might
be uh more rhetoric from the Biden
Administration criticizing uh
criticizing Israel trying to sort of
save face trying to win back some of
these young voters but the question that
I have and that I've had all along is um
is it too little too late has has Biden
already sort of committed uh political
suicide here it's always interesting to
get your thoughts on this Muhammad alash
we appreciate it thank you very
much make sure to subscribe our channel
to get the latest news from aler